
Automa Rules for Solo Play
These rules replace the standard Automa rules for solo play.
1. Setup
Choose one Civilization mat and one Capital City mat for the Automa.
Proceed with setup as you would for a human player with the following exceptions:
Give the Automa a random Landmark card. Place the corresponding Landmark miniature on the Era II space of the Automa's Income mat.
When the Automa begins its second Income Turn, it places the Landmark miniature in its Capital City. Follow the Automa Landmark placement rules below.
Instead of resource tokens, place two cubes of the Automa's color on space '2' of the resource tracker on the Automa's Income mat. The Automa starts with 4 resources, and its maximum is 16. All Automa resources are wild.
Give the Automa one face-down Territory tile and one face-down Tapestry card.
Add a third player color to an empty territory on the map. Perform an Explore action with that color. To determine the direction for placing the Outpost, draw an Automa card and place the Outpost based on the direction indicated on the card.
2. Automa Turns
Automa will primarily take Advance Turns.
Automa takes an Income Turn only if it cannot take an Advance Turn.
3. Advancement Turn
Automa always pays the cost for advancements and gains all benefits and bonuses. To pay, move a resource cube one space to the left for each resource required.
Automa never pays for bonuses in Tier I & II, but pays for the bonuses in Era III & IV.
Favorite Track Priority: Automa prioritizes its favorite Advancement Track based on the following:
If Automa is in Tier IV on any track, that track is the favorite (priority is to reach the 12th space).
If Automa is tied with the human player on a track, then that's the favorite track (priority is to be ahead).
If it is 1 space before a Landmark on a track, then that's the favorite track (priority is to get that Landmark as soon as possible).
When evaluating priorities, start with the highest rule and move down if there is a tie. If there is still a tie after applying these priorities, use the Automa cards to break the tie.
4. Military Track Actions
Conquer: Automa determines its conquest target based on the following priority:
The space nearest to the center of the map (if not already controlled and conquerable).
The space nearest to your Outpost(s).
The space nearest to the third player color's Outpost(s).
If there is still a tie, use the Automa cards to break the tie.
When conquering, Automa does not roll a die; it automatically gains a resource. Automa may roll the red die if a specific rule on a space requires it, such as the 7th space on the Military track (TANKS).
5. Building and Landmark Placement
Landmarks: Place Landmarks in the first available space on the Capital City mat, starting from the top-left and moving left to right, then top to bottom, ensuring the Landmark fits completely in any orientation. If multiple orientations are possible, choose the one that covers the most squares of a district that is closest to being filled, and then the one that results in the fewest spaces extending off the mat.
Buildings: Place Buildings in the district with the fewest empty spaces. Within that district, place the Building from left to right, top to bottom. If there is a tie for multiple districts, choose the first district from left to right, top to bottom.
6. Technology Track Actions
Choosing Tech Cards: Roll the red die to determine which face-up Tech card to choose. On a roll of 6-7, choose the top card; on a roll of 4-5, choose the middle card; on other results, choose the bottom card.
Place new Tech cards from left to right in the bottom row.
Automa always upgrades the leftmost card in the highest row it can upgrade (the middle row or the bottom row). Prerequisites must be met. If upgrading a Tech card yields no benefit, place the card in the rightmost space of that row. Then, it attempts to upgrade the next card from the left in that same row. If Automa cannot upgrade the current card, it attempts to upgrade the next card from the left in that same row. If Automa cannot upgrade any card in the highest available row, it does nothing for the upgrade action.
For the 9th space on the Technology track (ELECTRONICS): If by choosing to upgrade a Tech card first, it would result in removing the last card from a space that grants a "Circle" benefit (thus preventing Automa from activating a "Circle" ability), Automa first activates the "Circle" ability of a Tech card in its middle row, then performs the upgrade action.
For the 12th space on the Technology track (AI SINGULARITY), choose the track with the most advancements, likely the Technology track. If tied, use the current Automa card priority.
For the 11th space on the Technology track (NANOTECHNOLOGY) (which offers both an upgrade and a "Square" benefit): To resolve the "Square" benefit, Automa chooses the first card from left to right in its top row that yields a benefit.
7. Science Track Actions
Research: Always roll the larger science die, unless Automa is at the end of the Art track. Automa advances on the rolled track. If the research icon has an X on it, it does not gain the benefit or the bonus. If the research icon does not have an X on it, it gains the benefit and the bonus.
For the 7th space on the Science track (ACADEMIC RESEARCH), choose the most advanced track. If tied, use the favorite track priority.
For the 10th space on the Science track (NEUROSCIENCE), between the Military and the Technology track, choose the one with the fewest advancements that can be gained in full. If tied, priority rules apply.
8. Exploration Track Actions
Automa keeps Territory tiles in a face-down stack.
Territory Tile Placement Priority:
Where Automa gains the most victory points.
Nearest to where we have a single outpost on a territory tile.
Nearest to where the 3rd color has a single outpost on a territory tile.
If it yields nothing (like a building which is depleted), put the territory tile on the bottom of the stack and use the next one, if possible.
For the 9th space on the Exploration track (AIRPLANES), prioritize based on where the most points are gained. If tied, you decide.
Always explore space tiles even if gaining nothing.
9. Arts Track Actions
Inspiration Tile: Automa chooses the Inspiration Tile corresponding to the Income track with the fewest remaining buildings. If tied, use the Automa card priority.
Choosing Masterpiece Cards: Roll a die to choose a Masterpiece card. In Era IV only, prioritize Masterpiece cards that provide the most points at that moment. If tied, decide by rolling a die.
On the 12th space on the Arts track (STREAMING IMPLANTS), gain the benefits that provide the most victory points.
10. Income Turn
Perform actions in the following order:
If Automa has any Masterpiece cards, gain their indicated benefits. Start with Masterpiece cards that yield resources, buildings, and advancement (in any order), then activate the rest of the Masterpieces in any order.
Activate Civilization ability based on the Civilization card.
Play a Tapestry Card: Draw Tapestry cards from the deck until a "When played" card is drawn. Discard the other drawn cards and the top card of the Automa's face-down Tapestry cards. Play the drawn "When played" Tapestry card and gain its benefits and Charm bonuses.
Upgrade a Tech card as usual.
Gain points. Score 1 victory point per completed row and column in the Capital City. Additionally, gain 2 victory points per completed district. Do not gain the 2 points per completed district when scoring is limited to only rows or columns (e.g., by a Masterpiece card).
11. Combat
When you attack Automa, Automa only rolls a red die if it has at least 3 Tapestry cards. If Automa rolls, both you and Automa roll a red die. The higher number wins. If Automa wins, it gains a resource and discards 2 Tapestry cards.
12. Gaining a New Civilization
When Automa gains a new Civilization, do not draw a new Civilization mat. Instead, use the "Automa new civ board." This board has 12 spaces with the following effects:
Get a tech card
Get victory points based of the number of tech cards
Explore a territory tile
Get victory points based on the number of conquered spaces
gain 2 resources
roll the red die
advance on a track with no benefit/bonus
Get victory points based on the number of Landmarks
Take/Explore a Space tile
Get victory points based on the number of territory tiles
Take a Masterpiece
Number of Tapestry cards
Place one of Automa's cubes on the number one space of this board during setup for the first additional Civilization.
During the Income Turn, to activate the additional Civilization's ability, roll the red die and move the corresponding cube forward based on the result. Gain the results of the current, next, and previous spaces.
For each new Civilization gained, add a new cube to the "Automa new civ board" which will also advance during Income Turns.
13. General Automa Choices
Whenever there is a choice to be made (e.g., on a Tapestry card), roll the red die.
For choices between 3 options: On a roll of 6-7, choose the first option; on a roll of 4-5, choose the second option; on other results, choose the third option.
For choices between 2 options: On a roll of 5-6-7, choose the first option; on a roll of 4 or other results, choose the second option.
When choosing between tracks, use the favorite track priority. If still tied, roll the science die.
If there are options to gain points, choose the option that grants the most points.
For any choice between gaining a building and anything else, Automa always chooses a building, unless none are available. If tied for which building to choose, it takes the one it has the most of. If still tied, it takes the next available building based on its favorite tracks.

